(upbeat music)
- [Instructor] So, how did it go?
Were you able to solve the challenge?
Let us see one possible solution
that I came up with
in order to approach our problem statement.
For that, let's create a new project.
This project will hold only our challenge solution.
It's a Java version 11 project.
Let's say next
and give it a name.
So we will call that ChallengeSolution.
The project opens up in a new Window
and under the source folder,
let's create a package first
which is com.linkedin.generics.solution.
Let's get started now with building the solution.
I'll create a class on this package
which we will call NumericalOperations.
That was the first step, to write a class
which handles your mathematical operations.
And the constraint on this class
was that it should accept number and its subtypes.
So now I'm going to define a type parameter for this class
and I will choose the letter N for it
because this class is supposed
to handle mathematical operations.
So the convention says that
if you are trying to deal with numbers,
you always use the type parameter to be named as N.
So I'll say N and then I'll define bounded types
so that this class accepts only number and its subtypes.
So I'll say N extends Number, like that.
So now this class will accept anything that is a number
or any of its subtypes.
The next step was to add a constructor
which will accept multiple operands
and assign them to an instance variable.
So let's create that instance variable first,
let me put a command here.
So that will be private List of N
and let's call this operands.
Let's also input the Java.util list interface.
Then we add a constructor, NumericalOperations
and this should take an argument again of the list type
because we want multiples operands to be accepted.
So we'll say List of N, let's call this operands as well.
Now inside this, the incoming argument operands
should be assigned to the instance variables operands
that we declared on line number seven.
So we will access the instance variable using the,
this operator, and we'll create a fresh ArrayList
which takes in the incoming operands argument like that.
Now, the question is why did we create a new ArrayList
This is because in some cases,
if somebody tries to pass an immutable list to test a class,
then we are trying to set a defense against it.
So if there is an immutable list coming in,
we are trying to make a copy of that ArrayList
so that we can change it later
when we try to sort the list.
If you take in the immutable list as it is,
then you will not be able to change the list.
So that's why I create a new ArrayList here.
The next step will be to add the method
which will help us return a list of sorted numbers.
So let's go ahead and do that.
This will be public.
It has to return a list of sorted numbers.
So the return type will be List of N
and let's call the method sortNumbers.
Now, inside this method,
I choose to use the Collections utility class.
This class gives me a ready-made API sort
which will help me sort my numbers.
So I need not write my own logic
to get my numbers sorted.
To this method, I need to pass my operands, like that.
Now, if I do this, I get a compilation problem on line 16
which reads as, that there no instance
of type variability that exists
so that your N, which is your type parameter,
conforms to comparable.
So the reason here is
that the Collection.sort method internally
uses the comparable interface
to perform a logic to sort your numbers.
So in order to do that,
my class NumericalOperations will also have
to conform to that comparable interface.
So the way to do it is on line seven,
let me include the comparable interface
using the and operator, like that.
So Comparable of N.
So this is a case of multiple bounds
that we are trying to specify.
The class is specified first
and then it is followed by the interface.
The moment I do this declaration, line number 16 error
is gone and we are good.
Then we'll just go ahead
and return this list
so that we have it on our output.
Then we had to add yet another method
which was to get the maximum value among the numbers.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Say public, it has to return a number.
So the return type has to be N
and let's call this, getMax.
And I'm again, going to choose
the Collections utility classes, getMax method.
It's the max method, which will take in your operands
as the argument, calculate the maximum value out of it,
and then return it to you.
So that is all, this is it.
This is our NumericalOperations class.
We have bounded types, which are multiple
that are defined on a class.
We have the instance variable, the constructor,
and the two methods that we were supposed to add.
Now, let's test this out, let's create a test class.
Let's call it TestSolution, write the main method there.
And the test was supposed to be run
with the help of a list of long type of values.
So let's create that list of long.
No, we want the list interface, which is this one.
So we will go and eliminate this unwanted input.
Okay, so this will be List of Long type
of values as we said, let's call this longList, okay.
And then instantiate this to newer list.
But in Java, you can actually pass a ready-made set
of values to the list, using the List.of method.
So you can either make a new array list
and feed in values, one by one, using the add API
or you can directly feed in all the numbers
using the List.of API.
Let's now insert a comma separated list of values
that we wish to insert into the List of Long.
So let's say 12,
and I'll have to suffix the number
with the L letter to indicate that it is a long value.
Otherwise it'll be treated as an in integer.
So let's go ahead
and put in some numbers, right.
So those are our numbers.
Then we will create an instance of our NumericalOperations.
So we'll invoke our generic type.
So let's say NumericalOperations of Long
because we want the long values to be processed.
Let's create a variable
and instantiate this, using the diamond operator.
And we have to pass the list of course
for the constructor (indistinct)
So we do that.
On the next line, now let's just go ahead
and call our methods.
So I'm going to say numericalOperations.sortNumbers
and print it to the console.
Similarly, I will call the numericalOperations.getMax
and print that output to the console.
So now let's go ahead and run this test
and find out if it works well, there we go.
So we have the list of sorted numbers
that was returned to us
and it looks perfectly sorted
and then the max number that is calculated from that list.